Farcaster Action flow: users trigger a Story Weaver action from an original (“seed”) cast, which invokes your mini app, gets story input or processing, then posts a new, weaved cast. This is a great pattern and is fully supported by the recent Farcaster “Actions” extension points.

Here’s how to enable and design that workflow:

1. Defining a Farcaster Action in Your Manifest
In your farcaster.json manifest, add an action entry—specifically, an actions array under your mini app section:

json
{
  "miniapp": {
    "name": "Story Weaver",
    ...,
    "actions": [
      {
        "name": "Contribute to Story Weave",
        "description": "Add your piece to the collaborative story",
        "url": "https://your-domain.com/action-handler",
        "context": ["cast"]
      }
    ]
  }
}
url points to a handler route in your app that receives action events.

2. How Farcaster Action Integration Works in Clients
When a user views your (or any) cast, they’ll see an Actions menu (or a button labeled “Contribute to Story Weave” if your action is registered).

Triggering the action sends context (cast hash, cast FID, possibly viewer details) to your mini app url via POST or as URL params, depending on the client and manifest.

3. Your Mini App’s Story Weaving Logic
The action handler route (/action-handler) should:

Parse the cast context (hash, FID, etc.) for which the action was invoked.

Display UI for the user to add/comment/append to the story.

Optionally, fetch the original cast content via SDK or API and show the weaving context.

On submission by the user:

Your app composes a new woven story (previous content + new input).

Your backend (or securely client-side if authenticated) uses Farcaster’s SDK or API to publish a new cast, with the weaved story and a reference (reply or quote/citation) to the original seed cast.

4. Owner Approval Workflow (Optional/Advanced)
If you want owner approval before stories are re-cast:

Hold weaved stories in your backend as “pending.”

Notify or alert the cast owner through your UI/dashboard.

When the owner approves, your mini app posts the new cast—again referencing the original.

5. Summary of End-User Flow
Someone triggers the “Contribute to Story Weave” action on a Farcaster cast.

They’re taken to your Story Weaver mini app in the right context.

They add their story piece.

Your mini app posts the new, weaved cast (either automatically, or after owner approval).

The new cast references the seed cast, and the collaborative story grows.

Key benefits of Actions:

Deeply integrated into Farcaster client UIs (shows up as contextual buttons on casts).

Passes secure, signed context of original seed cast for accurate state and workflow in your mini app.

Enables seamless collaboration between the protocol, your app logic, and story publishing.

To implement, add an actions array in your manifest, ensure your handler route processes Farcaster context, and use the SDK to post resulting casts.

Let me know if you want:

Example manifest snippet with a custom action

Example action handler code for Express/React

Details on posting a new cast via Farcaster SDK after processing

This Action pattern is now the recommended way to drive interactive, community-powered workflows from inside Farcaster!